PAYG MIST managed Azure instructions (#682)
128technology/docs: docs/intro_installation_azure_mist.md

---
title: Installing a Mist-Managed Router in Azure
sidebar_label: Installing Mist-Managed Router in Azure
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

## Introduction

This guide describes the process for deploying a Mist Managed Session Smart Router (SSR) in Azure. The process consists of the following steps:

1. [Selecting the Azure plan"](#selecting-the-azure-plan).
3. Deploying a [Session Smart Router](#session-smart-router).

> Proceed to the next section [Selecting the Azure plan"](#selecting-the-azure-plan).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Selecting the Azure Plan

There are different Plans available for the Juniper Session Smart Networking Platform offering:

* Private Plan: For cases where there is no access to the SSR repositories (no internet connection) from the Azure environment where the software will be deployed, a Private image can be shared in the Azure Marketplace using your Azure subscription. To request access to a private plan, refer to [Requesting access to a Private plan](#requesting-access-to-a-private-plan) for additional information.

> * Hourly Plan: This provides a free trial period for 30 days and an hourly software cost after the trial expires. This plan is recommended for Proof of Concepts and Trials only. Software upgrades and deployments outside of the cloud, (on premises) require a token or certificate. The software can not be purchased via the marketplace. Select the Hourly plan of the [Session Smart Networking Platform](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/juniper-networks.session-smart-networking-payg?tab=Overview) offering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Hourly Plan: This provides a free trial period for 30 days and an hourly software cost after the trial expires. This plan is recommended for Proof of Concepts and Trials only. Software upgrades and deployments outside of the cloud, (on premises) require a token. The software cannot be purchased via the marketplace. Select the Hourly plan of the [Session Smart Networking Platform](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/juniper-networks.session-smart-networking-payg?tab=Overview) offering.
```

> Once you have selected the plan that better suits the needs of your deployment, proceed to the [Session Smart Router Deployment](#session-smart-router) to deploy a Session Smart Router.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have selected the plan that best suits the needs of your deployment, proceed to the [Session Smart Router Deployment](#session-smart-router) to deploy a Session Smart Router.
```

### Requesting access to a Private plan

:::important

> There is no software cost associated with deploying the Private image, the cost of running the VM is the only cost (Azure compute cost). Please also note that software upgrades and deployments **outside** of the cloud (e.g., on premises) will not be possible without a token or certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no software cost associated with deploying the Private image, the cost of running the VM is the only cost (i.e., Azure compute cost). Please also note that software upgrades and deployments **outside** of the cloud (e.g., on premises) will not be possible without a software access token.
```

:::

To request access to a Private plan follow the next steps:

1. Locate the Subscription ID of the Azure account where the deployment of the software is going to take place. Follow the next steps to find the Subscription ID:

* Please click [here](https://portal.azure.com) to go to the Azure portal.
* On the search box right at the top of the screen, search for "Subscriptions". If you cannot find the subscription associated with your Azure account click [here](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Billing/SubscriptionsBlade).
* Take note of your Subscription ID.

2. Contact your Juniper Networks Sales representative and provide:

* The Subscription ID of the Azure account that will be used for the deployment.

> * The version of the Session Smart Networking software. Your Juniper Sales representative will assist you if you don't know the version you need for your deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The version of the Session Smart Networking software. Your Juniper Sales representative will assist you if you do not know the desired version needed for your deployment.
```

* Each network interface has a network security group associated. The network security groups are configured in accordance with the requirements to deploy a fabric with Session Smart Networking software.
* The public and management interfaces have a unique and static public IP address associated.

The following image shows the infrastructure elements deployed:

![Router deployment](/img/platforms_azure_router_deployment.png)

### Azure Portal

To deploy the Session Smart Networking software via the Azure Portal:

Click on the **Session Smart Networking Platform** offering selected during the previous section [selecting the Azure plan"](#selecting-the-azure-plan).
Click on the "Get it now" button.
Agree to the terms of use and privacy policy of the image.
Click on the tab "Plans + Pricing" as shown in the following picture:

![Plans](/img/platforms_azure_plans.png)

Lastly click on the "Launch" link of the MIST managed template.

Answer the following 4 questions to launch the deployment of an SSR (additional information [here](#launch-the-template)):
* What name do you want to give it?

> Provide it in the "Instance Name" field (for example: 128TRouter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide it in the "Instance Name" field (for example: `128TRouter`).
```

* Where do you want to deploy it?
  * Provide the location where the VNet exists in the "Location" field (for example: eastus). All available locations [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/locations). Note the name of the Location field is one word and all lowercase like eastus, westus, westeurope, eastasia, etc.

>   * Provide the name of the VNet in the "Virtual Network Name" field (for example: 128T-VNet).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Provide the name of the VNet in the "Virtual Network Name" field (for example: `128T-VNet`).
```

>   * Provide the name of the availability set in the "Availability Set Name" field (for example: 128TRouterSet).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Provide the name of the availability set in the "Availability Set Name" field (for example: `128TRouterSet`).
```

  * Provide the name of the "Public Subnet Name"
  * Provide the name of the "Private Subnet Name"
* Which Mist org is going to manage it?
  Provide the [registration code](wan_onboarding_whitebox.md#manual-adoption) for the Mist org.
* Who is going to be the administrator?

> Provide an username (for example: t128) and the content of your public SSH key in the "Admin Username" and "Admin Public Key Data" fields respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide an username (for example: `t128`) and the content of your public SSH key in the "Admin Username" and "Admin Public Key Data" fields respectively.
```

Agree to the terms of use and conditions of the deployment and lastly click on the "Purchase" button to launch the deployment.

![Plans](/img/platforms_azure_deployment_complete.png)

If the validation process fails with the error shown below, please make sure you are deploying the version of the software Juniper has allowlisted to your Subscription ID and try again later. If the problem persists, please contact your Juniper representative.

<img src={useBaseUrl('/img/platforms_azure_private_image_version_mismatch.png')} alt="Private Image Version Mismatch" width="75%" height="75%" />

Once the deployment completes, information is provided in the Outputs tab on the left hand side:

> * If the **Session Smart Networking Platform** offering selected for the deployment is a **Private image**, the non-interactive, Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP) method is triggered. After the VM is deployed, an additional 2-3 minutes are required before the ZTP process initializes. When the ZTP process is ready, there will be an asset in the Mist inventory to be associated with the router configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the **Session Smart Networking Platform** offering selected for the deployment is a **Private image**, the non-interactive, Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP) method is triggered. After the VM is deployed, it will take an additional 2-3 minutes for the ZTP process to complete. When the ZTP process concludes, there will be an asset in the Mist inventory to be associated with the router configuration.
```

### Cloud-init Onboarding
When launching an instance using CLI or Powershell or while using automation the following user-data section can be leveraged to setup the onboarding data for the instance.

```
#cloud-config
write_files:
  - path: /etc/128T-hardware-bootstrapper/onboarding-config.json
    content: |
      { "name": "<router-name>", "registration-code": "<regcode>", "version": "2.0", "mode": "mist-managed", "cloud-provider": "azure"}
```

| Option | Meaning |
| ------ | ------- |
| name | The name of the router to use for Mist onboarding. By default, the instance name will be used. |
| registration-code | The Mist registration used for adoption of the EC2 instance to a Mist org. |

### Mist-Managed Setup

Once the instance is launched with the correct registration-code, the device will self-onboard to appropriate Mist org. The process can take up to 5 minutes. The device is visible as Unassigned in the Mist org once onboarding is complete.

> If the device does not show up in the Mist org after 5 minutes, ssh into the instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Log into the pcli, run `su admin` and then `show mist`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - If that does not show the device, drop back to the linux shell and look at the journal for the bootstrapper:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - `journalctl -u 128T-hardware-bootstrapper`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  And the Mist agent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - `journalctl -u 128T-mist-agent`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| Admin Public Key Data| Paste in the field Admin Public Key Data the SSH public key to be used to authenticate with the VM (Linux) instance via SSH. The key needs to be at least 2048-bit and in ssh-rsa format. Please find the following an example of a valid key next (To reduce the length of the key in this example multiple character have been replaced by three dots): ```ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAACAQDHwB1Qe1KndGqKuT3F...GumfdHfdasy8N0kncMtp2wtkqoLsRWdJ4/WKaZBOrPd4Q== admin@Admin-MacBook-Pro.local```. For more information about creating ssh keys, see [Create SSH keys on Linux and Mac for Linux VMs in Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/mac-create-ssh-keys).                                                                                                         |

##### Azure Portal

Click on the **Session Smart Networking Platform** offering selected during the previous section [Selecting the Azure plan"](#selecting-the-azure-plan).
Click on the "Get it now" button.
Agree to the terms of use and privacy policy of the image.
Click on the tab "Plans + Pricing" as shown in the following picture:

![Plans](/img/platforms_azure_plans.png)

> Click on the "Launch" link of the "Juniper Session Smart Router" template that better suits your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the "Launch" link of the "Juniper Session Smart Router" template that best suits your needs.
```

    "adminUsername": {
      "value": "<username>"
    },
    "adminPublicKeyData": {
      "value": "<content of ssh-rsa key>"
    }
  }
}
```

Go to the **Session Smart Networking Platform** offering following the steps described in the section [Selecting the Azure plan"](#selecting-the-azure-plan).
Click on the "Get it now" button.
Agree to the terms of use and privacy policy of the image.
Click on the "Get started" button to enable programmatic deployment for the subscription.
Click the button "Save" to save the changes.

![Plans](/img/platforms_azure_programmatically.png)

Close the "Configure Programmatic Deployment" window.
Click on the tab "Plans + Pricing".
Copy the URL of the "Session Smart Router" template located in the field "URL" to the clipboard.
Launch the template running the following command:

```
New-AzResourceGroupDeployment -ResourceGroupName <your-resource-group-name> `
-TemplateUri <template-URL> `
-TemplateParameterFile ./router_private.parameters.json
```

:::important
When logging to the Linux instance via SSH make use of the username specified in the "Admin Username" field and the corresponding private key specified in the "Admin Public Key Data" field.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::

## Troubleshooting

### Device Does Not Exist In Mist after ZTP
If the device does not show up in the Mist org after 5 minutes, ssh into the instance through the Azure portal.
- Log into the pcli, run `su admin` and then `show mist`.

- If the status and action necessary is not obvious, drop back to the linux shell and look at the journal for the bootstrapper:
 - `journalctl -u 128T-hardware-bootstrapper`

 And the Mist agent:
 - `journalctl -u 128T-mist-agent`
```

Once the deployment completes, information is provided in the Outputs tab on the left hand side. If the **Session Smart Networking Platform** offering selected for the deployment is a **Private image**, the non-interactive, Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP) method is triggered. After the VM is deployed, an additional 2-3 minutes are required before the ZTP process initializes. When the ZTP process is ready, there will be an asset in the Mist inventory to be associated with the router configuration.

### Cloud-init Onboarding
When launching an instance using CLI or Powershell or while using automation the following user-data section can be leveraged to setup the onboarding data for the instance.

```
#cloud-config
write_files:
  - path: /etc/128T-hardware-bootstrapper/onboarding-config.json
    content: |
      { "name": "<router-name>", "registration-code": "<regcode>", "version": "2.0", "mode": "mist-managed", "cloud-provider": "azure"}
```

| Option | Meaning |
| ------ | ------- |
| name | The name of the router to use for Mist onboarding. By default, the instance name will be used. |

> | registration-code | The Mist registration used for adoption of the EC2 instance to a Mist org. |

Reviewer 2: not ec2. I'd search for ec2 elsewhere in this doc or any other aws specific terminology

---
title: Installing a Mist-Managed Router in Azure
sidebar_label: Installing Mist-Managed Router in Azure
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

## Introduction

This guide describes the process for deploying a Mist Managed Session Smart Router (SSR) in Azure. The process consists of the following steps:

1. [Selecting the Azure plan"](#selecting-the-azure-plan).
3. Deploying a [Session Smart Router](#session-smart-router-deployment).

> Proceed to the next section [Selecting the Azure plan"](#selecting-the-azure-plan).

Reviewer: This is unnecessary since it is literally jumping you to the next line.

Author: I mostly just copy/pasted this from the exisitng Azure doc. Once new images are published I'll go back and clean up the docs but for now I hope its okay to keep this as is. I want to also get better screenshots coz these word instructions are actually very confusing. I wont have time to do that for this doc for now though.

## Selecting the Azure Plan

There are different Plans available for the Juniper Session Smart Networking Platform offering:

* Private Plan: For cases where there is no access to the SSR repositories (no internet connection) from the Azure environment where the software will be deployed, a Private image can be shared in the Azure Marketplace using your Azure subscription. To request access to a private plan, refer to [Requesting access to a Private plan](#requesting-access-to-a-private-plan) for additional information.

> * Hourly Plan: This provides a free trial period for 30 days and an hourly software cost after the trial expires. This plan is recommended for Proof of Concepts and Trials only. Software upgrades and deployments outside of the cloud, (on premises) require a token or certificate. The software can not be purchased via the marketplace. Select the Hourly plan of the [Session Smart Networking Platform](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/juniper-networks.session-smart-networking-payg?tab=Overview) offering.

Reviewer: "The software can not be purchased via the marketplace"
cannot is one word

This is also a confusing statement since the software is being purchased, albeit hourly. What do you mean exactly that the software can't be purchased?

Author: not sure - this is exactly copy/pasted from existing docs - https://docs.128technology.com/docs/intro_installation_azure - which is already published.

Reviewer 3: It's referring to on prem software being purchased through Azure. That is extremely confusing and id not necessary. I'll remove in both locations.

> Once you have selected the plan that better suits the needs of your deployment, proceed to the section [Session Smart Conductor Deployment](#session-smart-conductor-deployment) to deploy a Session Smart Conductor, or proceed to the section [Session Smart Router Deployment](#session-smart-router-deployment) to deploy a Session Smart Router.

Reviewer: If this guide is specifically for Mist, can we please separate this document into two, one for Mist and one for conductor?

### Requesting access to a Private plan

:::important
There is no software cost associated with deploying the Private image, the cost of running the VM is the only cost (Azure compute cost). Please also note that software upgrades and deployments **outside** of the cloud (e.g., on premises) will not be possible without a token or certificate.
:::

To request access to a Private plan follow the next steps:

1. Locate the Subscription ID of the Azure account where the deployment of the software is going to take place. Follow the next steps to find the Subscription ID:

* Please click [here](https://portal.azure.com) to go to the Azure portal.
* On the search box right at the top of the screen, search for "Subscriptions". If you cannot find the subscription associated with your Azure account click [here](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Billing/SubscriptionsBlade).
* Take note of your Subscription ID.

2. Contact your Juniper Networks Sales representative and provide:

* The Subscription ID of the Azure account that will be used for the deployment.

> * The version of the Session Smart Networking software. Your Juniper Sales representative will assist you if you don't know the version you need for your deployment.

Reviewer: The "desired version"

> 3. Wait for the confirmation from your Juniper Sales representative to confirm that your Azure Subscription has been allowlisted and therefore access has been granted.

Reviewer: "allowlisted" on word? Is this an Azure term?

Author: no idea - its taken from https://docs.128technology.com/docs/intro_installation_azure - probably worth asking Tony Sanchez to re-review this once published. I dont know if the process has changed at all since we last captured these docs.

Reviewer 3: It is a term that I believe is used in their documentation - I am fairly sure I verified it in the Azure docs/installation earlier, but I will verify.

* Virtual machine using a Session Smart image available in the marketplace.
* The router is deployed with three network interfaces: public, private and management interfaces.
* Each network interface has a network security group associated. The network security groups are configured in accordance with the requirements to deploy a fabric with Session Smart Networking software.
* The public and management interfaces have a unique and static public IP address associated.

The following image shows the infrastructure elements deployed:

![Router deployment](/img/platforms_azure_router_deployment.png)

### Azure Portal

To deploy the Session Smart Networking software via the Azure Portal:

Click on the **Session Smart Networking Platform** offering selected during the previous section [selecting the Azure plan"](#selecting-the-azure-plan).
Click on the "Get it now" button.
Agree to the terms of use and privacy policy of the image.
Click on the tab "Plans + Pricing" as shown in the following picture:

> ![Plans](/img/platforms_azure_plans.png)

Reviewer: Are these a new or pre-existing images?

Author: pre-existing

* Where do you want to deploy it?
  * Provide the location where the VNet exists in the "Location" field (for example: eastus). All available locations [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/locations). Note the name of the Location field is one word and all lowercase like eastus, westus, westeurope, eastasia, etc.
  * Provide the name of the VNet in the "Virtual Network Name" field (for example: 128T-VNet).
  * Provide the name of the availability set in the "Availability Set Name" field (for example: 128TRouterSet).
  * Provide the name of the "Public Subnet Name"
  * Provide the name of the "Private Subnet Name"
* Which Mist org is going to manage it?
  Provide the [registration code](wan_onboarding_whitebox.md#manual-adoption) for the Mist org.
* Who is going to be the administrator?
Provide an username (for example: t128) and the content of your public SSH key in the "Admin Username" and "Admin Public Key Data" fields respectively.

Agree to the terms of use and conditions of the deployment and lastly click on the "Purchase" button to launch the deployment.

![Plans](/img/platforms_azure_deployment_complete.png)

> If the validation process fails with the error shown below, please make sure you are deploying the version of the software Juniper has allowlisted to your Subscription ID and try again later. If the problem persists, please contact your Juniper representative.

Reviewer: move to a troubleshooting section?

Author: this is how we structured the AWS doc - so following the same format

### Azure CLI or PowerShell

To deploy the Session Smart Networking software via Azure CLI or Powershell:

Click on the **Session Smart Networking Platform** offering selected during the previous section [Selecting the Azure plan"](#selecting-the-azure-plan).
Click on the "Get it now" button.
Agree to the terms of use and privacy policy of the image.
Click on the "Get started" button to enable programmatic deployment for the subscription and click the button "Save" to save the changes.

![Plans](/img/platforms_azure_programmatically.png)

Click on the tab "Plans + Pricing" as shown in the following picture:

![Plans](/img/platforms_azure_plans.png)

Lastly copy to the clipboard the URL of the template located in the field "URL" that better suits your needs.

Create the parameters file, accept the terms of use and conditions of the image and lastly launch the deployment with the corresponding Azure CLI or PowerShell commands making use of the URL of the template identified previously. For additional information please click [here](#launch-the-template).

> If the validation process fails with the error shown below, please make sure you are deploying the version of the software Juniper has allowlisted to your Subscription ID and try again later. If the problem persists, please contact your Juniper representative.

Reviewer: troubleshooting section

### Cloud-init Onboarding
When launching an instance using CLI or Powershell or while using automation the following user-data section can be leveraged to setup the onboarding data for the instance.

```
#cloud-config
write_files:
  - path: /etc/128T-hardware-bootstrapper/onboarding-config.json
    content: |
      { "name": "<router-name>", "registration-code": "<regcode>", "version": "2.0", "mode": "mist-managed", "cloud-provider": "azure"}
```

| Option | Meaning |
| ------ | ------- |
| name | The name of the router to use for Mist onboarding. By default, the instance name will be used. |
| registration-code | The Mist registration used for adoption of the EC2 instance to a Mist org. |

### Mist-Managed Setup

Once the instance is launched with the correct registration-code, the device will self-onboard to appropriate Mist org. The process can take up to 5 minutes. The device is visible as Unassigned in the Mist org once onboarding is complete.

> If the device does not show up in the Mist org after 5 minutes, ssh into the instance.

Reviewer: troubleshooting

* Session Smart Networking - Private Image:

```
Get-AzureRmMarketplaceTerms `
-Publisher "juniper-networks" `
-Product "session-smart-networking-payg" `
-Name "session-smart-networking-private-XYZ" `
| Set-AzureRmMarketplaceTerms -Accept
```

:::important
Replace the XYZ placeholder right in the command above with the version of the Session Smart Software to be deployed. For example, if the version to deploy is 5.4.4, then replace XYZ with 544
:::

### Load the template

After the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy have been accepted, select the **Plan** tab. The available templates are listed there.

When you select a template, a new tab opens in the browser that redirects you to the template.

:::important
As an additional note and only applicable when the chosen image is the Session Smart Networking Platform, please be aware of the following conditions before using any of its templates:
* Applicable when deploying an Session Smart Router:

>   * If there is an existing Session Smart Conductor in the network and the intent is to perform a non interactive installation of an SSR (for example a ZTP installation) please make sure the certificate provided by Juniper has been imported and loaded in Session Smart Conductor before launching the template to deploy the SSR.

Reviewer: Does this belong in a Mist install guide?

Author: it does not - I'll remove it - the base document was copied from https://docs.128technology.com/docs/intro_installation_azure so this was a left over. Good catch.

When you select a template, a new tab opens in the browser that redirects you to the template.

### Launch the Template

> This section describes how to fill out and launch the template using either the AWS marketplace or programmatically to deploy a Session Smart Router.

Reviewer: AWS -> Azure

Author: good catch ... done
